Fix install, upgrade, deploy, and manage issues (#8638)
pingcap/docs: faq/manage-cluster-faq.md

## Daily management

> This section describes common problems you may encounter during daily cluster management and their causes and solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes common problems you might encounter during daily cluster management, their causes, and solutions.
```

### How to safely stop TiDB?

- A load balancer is running (recommended): Stop the load balancer and then run the kill command. Then TiDB waits for a period specified by [graceful-wait-before-shutdown](/tidb-configuration-file.md#graceful-wait-before-shutdown-new-in-v50) until all sessions are terminated. Then TiDB stops running.

> - No load balancer is running: Run the kill command. The TiDB components are gracefully stopped.

Reviewer 2: This is ambiguous, since there is a shell command `kill` as well as `kill` in MySQL.

There is also a `SHUTDOWN` sql statement, which might be best to recommend since users might not know which `KILL` level to use etc. See: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/sql-statement-shutdown

Author: @easonn7 PTAL, thanks.

Reviewer 3: I agree with Morgan which we should recommend shutdown and tiup cluster command instead of [kill].
But it seems that we do not have a shutdown [all] option to stop the entire cluster.

### Can `kill` be executed in TiDB?

> [Kill](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md) commands are disabled by default. To run a kill command, you need to set `compatible-kill-query = true` or enable Global Kill (experimental) first. Then proceed with the following steps:

Reviewer 4: We don't encourage users to set `compatible-kill-query = true`.

> - Kil DML statements: First use `show processlist` to find the ID corresponding with the session, and then run `kill tidb [session id]`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Kill DML statements: First use `show processlist` to find the ID corresponding with the session, and then run `kill tidb [session id]`.
```

> - Kill DDL statements: First use `admin show ddl jobs` to find the ID of the DDL job you need to kill, and then run `admin cancel ddl jobs 'job_id' [, 'job_id'] ...`. For more details, see the [`ADMIN` statement](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin.md).

Reviewer 2: This advice is not technically correct. It says that you need to enable `compatible-kill-query` or global kill *to then use* `kill tidb`. But rather, `kill tidb` works if you don't enable either of these features. It is `kill` (without the tidb) that requires these to be enabled.

Author: @easonn7 PTAL, thanks.

Author: @morgo This modification is according to your comment in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/issues/6536:

The answer is not really helpful. KILL can be used, but is disabled by default because of the case that you could be using a load balancer and killing the wrong connection. This can be changed by either enabling compatible-kill-query = true, or enabling global kill (experimental).

Author: @xuyifangreeneyes Could you please take a look at this FAQ? Thanks.

Reviewer 4: 1. `kill tidb` always works. However, if `enable-global-kill = false`, `kill tidb` works only when the kill command sends to the right TiDB instance and may cause wrong kill when there is a proxy between the client and TiDB instances. Hence we don't recommend users to use `kill tidb` unless `enable-global-kill = true` or they know they send the kill command to the right TiDB instance.
2. We need to address that we don't recommend users to set `compatible-kill-query = true`.
3. Global kill will be GA in v6.1.0 and there will be a new config `enable-global-kill` whose default value is true(I'm just writing the pr...). In some previous versions, the switch that controls global kill is an invisible config `experimental.enable-global-kill`, which is also not mentioned in doc. Even if we set `experimental.enable-global-kill = true`, global kill may not work due to the existing bug(https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/33538)

Reviewer 4: 4. The fix pr of #33538 will be cherry picked to the previous versions.

Reviewer 2: It would help if the FAQ described why KILL is disabled by default (load balancer could route to wrong server), and when it is safe to enable compatible kill (only when there is no load balancer). Some users might require a compatible kill because they have a program to kill idle connections (using something like pt-kill is common with mysql).

The current wording is not helpful, because it says you need to enable various settings (without explaining) but it then uses the example syntax which doesn't require these settings (kill tidb).

Author: > It would help if the FAQ described why KILL is disabled by default (load balancer could route to wrong server), and when it is safe to enable compatible kill (only when there is no load balancer). Some users might require a compatible kill because they have a program to kill idle connections (using something like pt-kill is common with mysql).
> 
> The current wording is not helpful, because it says you need to enable various settings (without explaining) but it then uses the example syntax which doesn't require these settings (kill tidb).

Got it. We will optimize the wording and provide a clearer version.

Author: @morgo I have updated the answers to [How to safely stop TiDB](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/8638/files#diff-99d1372119ae4ed697e8d7fda222067f376d7bc2881ddce7d4bec353c2d00b05R38) and [Can `Kill` be executed in TiDB](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/8638/files#diff-99d1372119ae4ed697e8d7fda222067f376d7bc2881ddce7d4bec353c2d00b05R44). PTAL. Thanks.

Reviewer 2: LGTM

### Does TiDB support session timeout?

> TiDB currently supports two timeouts, [`wait_timeout`](/system-variables.md#wait_timeout) and [`interactive_timeout`](/system-variables.md#interactive_timeout).

Reviewer 5: We could mention the max_execution_time query timeout here, but I don't think we should

### How to safely stop TiDB?

> - When a load balancer is running (recommended): Stop the load balancer and execute the SQL statement `SHUTDOWN`. Then TiDB waits for a period as specified by [`graceful-wait-before-shutdown`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#graceful-wait-before-shutdown-new-in-v50) until all sessions are terminated. Then TiDB stops running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a load balancer is running (recommended): Stop the load balancer and execute the SQL statement `SHUTDOWN`. Then TiDB waits for a period as specified by [`graceful-wait-before-shutdown`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#graceful-wait-before-shutdown-new-in-v50) until all sessions are terminated. Then TiDB stops running.
```

> - When no load balancer is running: Execute the `SHUTDOWN` statement. Then TiDB components are gracefully stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If no load balancer is running: Execute the `SHUTDOWN` statement. Then TiDB components are gracefully stopped.
```

> - When no load balancer is running: Execute the `SHUTDOWN` statement`. Then TiDB components are gracefully stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When no load balancer is running: Execute the `SHUTDOWN` statement. Then TiDB components are gracefully stopped.
```

### Can `kill` be executed in TiDB?

- Kill DML statements:

>     First use `information_schema.cluster_processlist` to find the ID corresponding to the session, and then run the kill command.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    First use `information_schema.cluster_processlist` to find TiDB instance address and session ID, and then run the kill command.
```

>     First use `information_schema.cluster_processlist` to find the ID corresponding with the session, and then run the kill command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    First use `information_schema.cluster_processlist` to find the ID corresponding to the session, and then run the kill command.
```

>     TiDB v6.1.0 introduces the Global Kill feature (controlled by the `enable-global-kill` configuration, which is enabled by default). To enable Global Kill, execute `kill session_id`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    TiDB v6.1.0 introduces the Global Kill feature (controlled by the `enable-global-kill` configuration, which is enabled by default). If Global Kill is enabled, just execute `kill session_id`.
```

>     If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or if the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To terminate a DML statement, connect the client to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or if there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement may be routed to other TiDB instances, which may incorrectly terminate other sessions. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or if the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To terminate a DML statement, connect the client to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or if there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement might be routed to other TiDB instances, which might incorrectly terminate other sessions. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).
```

>     If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or if the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To terminate a DML statement, connect the client to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or if there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement might be routed to other TiDB instances, which might incorrectly terminate other sessions. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To terminate a DML statement, the client must directly connect to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement might be routed to some other TiDB instance, which might incorrectly terminate other sessions. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).
```

Author: 1. Since we seldom use `must` and prefer active voice, how about using:

    `you should connect the client directly to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement.`

2. The grammar is not correct: some other instance. Can we just keep the original `other TiDB instances`?

>     If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To terminate a DML statement, you should connect the client directly to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement might be routed to other TiDB instances, which might incorrectly terminate other sessions. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To terminate a DML statement, you should connect the client directly to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement might be routed to another TiDB instance, which might incorrectly terminate another session. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).
```

>     If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or if the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To kill a DML statement, connect the client to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or if there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement may be routed to other TiDB instances, which may incorrectly terminate other sessions. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the TiDB version is earlier than v6.1.0, or if the Global Kill feature is not enabled, `kill session_id` does not take effect by default. To kill a DML statement, connect the client to the TiDB instance that is executing the DML statement and then execute the `kill tidb session_id` statement. If the client connects to another TiDB instance or if there is a proxy between the client and the TiDB cluster, the `kill tidb session_id` statement might be routed to other TiDB instances, which might incorrectly terminate other sessions. For details, see [`KILL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-kill.md).
```

## PD management

> This section describes common problems you may encounter during PD management and their causes and solutions.

Reviewer: ditto

## TiDB server management

> This section describes common problems you may encounter during TiDB server management and their causes and solutions.

Reviewer: ditto

## TiKV server management

> This section describes common problems you may encounter during TiKV server management and their causes and solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes common problems you might encounter during TiKV server management, their causes, and solutions.
```

## TiDB testing

> This section describes common problems you may encounter during TiDB testing and their causes and solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes common problems you might encounter during TiDB testing, their causes and solutions.
```

## Backup and restoration

This section describes common problems you may encounter during backup and restoration, and their causes and solutions.

### How to back up data in TiDB?

Currently, for the backup of a large volume of data, the preferred method is using [BR](/br/backup-and-restore-tool.md). Otherwise, the recommended tool is [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md). Although the official MySQL tool `mysqldump` is also supported in TiDB to back up and restore data, its performance is worse than [BR](/br/backup-and-restore-tool.md) and it needs much more time to back up and restore large volumes of data.

> For more FAQS about BR, see [BR FAQs](/br/backup-and-restore-faq.md).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For more FAQs about BR, see [BR FAQs](/br/backup-and-restore-faq.md).
```
